doc_src/source/index.rst, before:

.. pnumpy documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Oct 22 12:01:26 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to PNumPy's documentation!
=============================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Contents:

    roadmap
    installation
    use

Parallel NumPy seamlessly speeds up NumPy for large arrays (64K+ elements) with *no change required to your existing NumPy code*.

This first release speeds up NumPy binary and unary ufuncs such as **add, multiply, isnan, abs, sin, log, sum, min and many more**.
Sped up functions also include: **sort, argsort, lexsort, boolean indexing, and fancy indexing**.
In the near future we will speed up: **astype, where, putmask, arange, searchsorted**.

Installation
------------

.. code-block:: python

   pip install pnumpy

To use the project:

.. code-block:: python

   import pnumpy as pn


Parallel NumPy speeds up NumPy silently under the hood.  To see some benchmarks yourself run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.benchmark()

.. image:: ../images/bench4graph2.PNG
.. image:: ../images/bench4graph3.PNG

To get a partial list of functions sped up run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.atop_info()

To disable or enable pnumpy run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.disable()
   pn.enable()

To cap the number of additional worker threads to 3 run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.thread_setworkers(3)

Additional Functionality
------------------------

PNumPy provides additional routines such as converting a NumPy record array to a column major array in parallel (**pn.recarray_to_colmajor**) which is useful for DataFrames.  Other routines include **pn.lexsort32**, which performs an indirect sort using **np.int32** instead of **np.int64** consuming half the memory and running faster.

Threading
---------

PNumPy uses a combination of threads and 256 bit vector intrinsics to speed up calculations.  By default most operations will only use 3 additional worker threads in combination with the main python thread for a total 4.  Large arrays are divided up into 16K chunks and threads are assigned to maintain cache coherency.  More threads are dynamically deployed for more intensive CPU problems like **np.sin**.  Users can customize threading.  The example below shows how 4 threads can work together to quadruple the effective L2 cache size.

.. image:: ../images/threading_npadd.PNG

FAQ
---

**Q: If I type np.sort(a) where a is an array, will it be sped up?**

*A: If len(a) > 65536 and pnumpy has been imported, it will automatically be sped up*

**Q: How is sort sped up?**

*A: PNumPy uses additional threads to divide up the sorting job.  For example it might perform an 8 way quicksort followed by a 4 way mergesort*

Development
-----------

To run all the tests run:

.. code-block:: python

   python -m pip install pytest
   python -m pytest tests


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

DOC: add documentation of benchmark

doc_src/source/index.rst, after:

.. pnumpy documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Thu Oct 22 12:01:26 2020.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to PNumPy's documentation!
==================================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2
    :caption: Contents:

    roadmap
    installation
    use

PNumPy seamlessly speeds up NumPy for large arrays (64K+ elements) with *no
change required to your existing NumPy code*.

This first release speeds up NumPy binary and unary ufuncs such as ``add``,
``multiply``, ``isnan``, ``abs``, ``sin``, ``log``, ``sum``, ``min`` and many more.
Sped up functions also include: ``sort``, ``argsort``, ``lexsort``, boolean indexing, and
fancy indexing.  In the near future we will speed up: ``astype``, ``where``, ``putmask``,
``arange``, ``searchsorted``.

Installation
------------

.. code-block:: python

   pip install pnumpy

To use the project:

.. code-block:: python

   import pnumpy as pn


PNumPy speeds up NumPy silently under the hood.  To see some benchmarks
yourself :ref:`run ASV <benchmarking_asv>` or use the built-in :ref:`benchmark
<benchmarking>` function:
 
.. code-block:: python

   pn.benchmark()

.. image:: ../images/bench4graph2.PNG
.. image:: ../images/bench4graph3.PNG

To get a partial list of functions sped up run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.atop_info()

To disable or enable pnumpy run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.disable()
   pn.enable()

To cap the number of additional worker threads to 3 run

.. code-block:: python

   pn.thread_setworkers(3)

.. _ASV: https://asv.readthedocs.io/en/stable/using.html


Additional Functionality
------------------------

PNumPy provides additional routines such as converting a NumPy record array to a column major array in parallel (**pn.recarray_to_colmajor**) which is useful for DataFrames.  Other routines include **pn.lexsort32**, which performs an indirect sort using **np.int32** instead of **np.int64** consuming half the memory and running faster.

Threading
---------

PNumPy uses a combination of threads and 256 bit vector intrinsics to speed up calculations.  By default most operations will only use 3 additional worker threads in combination with the main python thread for a total 4.  Large arrays are divided up into 16K chunks and threads are assigned to maintain cache coherency.  More threads are dynamically deployed for more intensive CPU problems like **np.sin**.  Users can customize threading.  The example below shows how 4 threads can work together to quadruple the effective L2 cache size.

.. image:: ../images/threading_npadd.PNG


FAQ
---

**Q: If I type np.sort(a) where a is an array, will it be sped up?**

*A: If len(a) > 65536 and pnumpy has been imported, it will automatically be sped up*

**Q: How is sort sped up?**

*A: PNumPy uses additional threads to divide up the sorting job.  For example it might perform an 8 way quicksort followed by a 4 way mergesort*

Development
-----------

To run all the tests run:

.. code-block:: python

   python -m pip install pytest
   python -m pytest tests


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
